README.rst, before:

.. This README is meant for consumption by humans and pypi. Pypi can render rst files so please do not use Sphinx features.
   If you want to learn more about writing documentation, please check out: http://docs.plone.org/about/documentation_styleguide.html
   This text does not appear on pypi or github. It is a comment.

==============================================================================
pcloud - A Python API client for pCloud
==============================================================================

.. image:: https://travis-ci.org/tomgross/pycloud.svg?branch=master
    :target: https://travis-ci.org/tomgross/pycloud

This Python **(Version >= 3.6 only!)** library provides a Python API to the pCloud storage.

Features
--------

- Can be used as a library
- Comes with a command line script
- Provides a PyFileSystem implementation


Examples
--------

Usage of API

 >>> from pcloud import PyCloud
 >>> pc = PyCloud('email@example.com', 'SecretPassword')
 >>> pc.listfolder(folderid=0)

Use alternate endpoint (*API calls have to be made to the correct API host name depending were the user has been
registered – api.pcloud.com for United States and eapi.pcloud.com for Europe.*)

 >>> from pcloud import PyCloud
 >>> pc = PyCloud('email@example.com', 'SecretPassword', endpoint="eapi")
 >>> pc.listfolder(folderid=0)

Uploading files

a) from filenames:

  >>> pc.uploadfile(files=['/full/path/to/image1.jpg', '/Users/tom/another/image.png'],
  ...     path='/path-to-pcloud-dir')

b) from data:

  >>> import io
  >>> from PIL import Image
  >>> img = Image.open('image.jpg', 'r')
  >>> bio = io.BytesIO()
  >>> img.save(bio, format='jpeg')
  >>> pc.uploadfile(data=bio.getvalue(), filename="image.jpg", path='/path-to-pcloud-dir')

Usage of PyFilesystem with opener

  >>> from fs import opener
  >>> opener.open_fs('pcloud://email%40example.com:SecretPassword@/')
  <pCloudFS>

Copying files from Linux to pCloud using PyFilesystem

  >>> from fs import opener, copy
  >>> with opener.open_fs('pcloud://email%40example.com:SecretPassword@/') as pcloud_fs:
  >>>    with opener.open_fs('/opt/data_to_copy') as linux_fs:
  >>>        copy.copy_file(src_fs=linux_fs,
  >>>                       src_path='database.sqlite3',
  >>>                       dst_fs=pcloud_fs,
  >>>                       dst_path='/backup/server/database.sqlite3')

Copy directory from Linux to pCloud using PyFilesystem

  >>> from fs import opener, copy
  >>> with opener.open_fs('pcloud://email%40example.com:SecretPassword@/') as pcloud_fs:
  >>>    with opener.open_fs('/opt/data_to_copy') as linux_fs:
  >>>        copy.copy_dir(src_fs=linux_fs,
  >>>                      src_path='database/',
  >>>                      dst_fs=pcloud_fs,
  >>>                      dst_path='/backup/database/')

Further Documentation
---------------------

Implements the pCloud API found at https://docs.pcloud.com/


Installation
------------

 $ pip install pcloud

Installation with PyFilesystem support

 $ bin/pip install pcloud[pyfs]

on zsh (Mac):

 $ bin/pip install "pcloud[pyfs]"


Development
-----------

For testing purposes a mock server is provided. To use this mock server
you need to add a file with the same name as the method + the `.json` suffix
in the tests/data directory (like `getdigest.json`).
The file contains the expected JSON result.

Contribute
----------

- Issue Tracker: https://github.com/tomgross/pycloud/issues
- Source Code: https://github.com/tomgross/pycloud

License
-------

The project is licensed under MIT (see docs/LICENSE.rst).

Commit message:

OAuth 2 implementation and more API methods

README.rst, after:

.. This README is meant for consumption by humans and pypi. Pypi can render rst files so please do not use Sphinx features.
   If you want to learn more about writing documentation, please check out: http://docs.plone.org/about/documentation_styleguide.html
   This text does not appear on pypi or github. It is a comment.

==============================================================================
pcloud - A Python API client for pCloud
==============================================================================

.. image:: https://travis-ci.org/tomgross/pycloud.svg?branch=master
    :target: https://travis-ci.org/tomgross/pycloud

This Python **(Version >= 3.6 only!)** library provides a Python API to the pCloud storage.

Features
--------

- Can be used as a library
- Comes with a command line script
- Provides a PyFileSystem implementation


Examples
--------

Usage of API

 >>> from pcloud import PyCloud
 >>> pc = PyCloud('email@example.com', 'SecretPassword')
 >>> pc.listfolder(folderid=0)

Use alternate endpoint (*API calls have to be made to the correct API host name depending were the user has been
registered – api.pcloud.com for United States and eapi.pcloud.com for Europe.*)

 >>> from pcloud import PyCloud
 >>> pc = PyCloud('email@example.com', 'SecretPassword', endpoint="eapi")
 >>> pc.listfolder(folderid=0)

OAuth 2.0 authentication

To use OAuth 2.0 authentication you need to create an App in pCloud (https://docs.pcloud.com/my_apps/).

Add the following redirect URI http://localhost:65432/
(Make sure port 65432 is available on your machine. Otherwise you need to adjust the `PORT` in oauth2.py)

Note! To see the redirect URI in the settings of pCloud you have to log out and log in again.

Once you finished adding the app and setting the redirect URI you are ready to use
OAuth 2.0 with PyCloud on your machine. For the communication with pCloud PyCloud uses the
builtin `webserver`-module.

 >>> from pcloud import PyCloud
 >>> pc = api.PyCloud.oauth2_authorize(client_id="XYZ", client_secret="abc123")
 >>> pc.listfolder(folderid=0)

Uploading files

a) from filenames:

  >>> pc.uploadfile(files=['/full/path/to/image1.jpg', '/Users/tom/another/image.png'],
  ...     path='/path-to-pcloud-dir')

b) from data:

  >>> import io
  >>> from PIL import Image
  >>> img = Image.open('image.jpg', 'r')
  >>> bio = io.BytesIO()
  >>> img.save(bio, format='jpeg')
  >>> pc.uploadfile(data=bio.getvalue(), filename="image.jpg", path='/path-to-pcloud-dir')

Usage of PyFilesystem with opener

  >>> from fs import opener
  >>> opener.open_fs('pcloud://email%40example.com:SecretPassword@/')
  <pCloudFS>

Copying files from Linux to pCloud using PyFilesystem

  >>> from fs import opener, copy
  >>> with opener.open_fs('pcloud://email%40example.com:SecretPassword@/') as pcloud_fs:
  >>>    with opener.open_fs('/opt/data_to_copy') as linux_fs:
  >>>        copy.copy_file(src_fs=linux_fs,
  >>>                       src_path='database.sqlite3',
  >>>                       dst_fs=pcloud_fs,
  >>>                       dst_path='/backup/server/database.sqlite3')

Copy directory from Linux to pCloud using PyFilesystem

  >>> from fs import opener, copy
  >>> with opener.open_fs('pcloud://email%40example.com:SecretPassword@/') as pcloud_fs:
  >>>    with opener.open_fs('/opt/data_to_copy') as linux_fs:
  >>>        copy.copy_dir(src_fs=linux_fs,
  >>>                      src_path='database/',
  >>>                      dst_fs=pcloud_fs,
  >>>                      dst_path='/backup/database/')

Further Documentation
---------------------

Implements the pCloud API found at https://docs.pcloud.com/


Installation
------------

 $ pip install pcloud

Installation with PyFilesystem support

 $ bin/pip install pcloud[pyfs]

on zsh (Mac):

 $ bin/pip install "pcloud[pyfs]"


Development
-----------

For testing purposes a mock server is provided. To use this mock server
you need to add a file with the same name as the method + the `.json` suffix
in the tests/data directory (like `getdigest.json`).
The file contains the expected JSON result.

Contribute
----------

- Issue Tracker: https://github.com/tomgross/pycloud/issues
- Source Code: https://github.com/tomgross/pycloud

License
-------

The project is licensed under MIT (see docs/LICENSE.rst).
